Timothy McAllister is one of the best soprano players I have ever heard. The way he performs my Garden of Love, with such ease, even in the high registers, is simply stunning: a breathtaking polished tone, combined with brilliant singing vibrato, and this typical American swing, what more could a composer want...Chapeau!
Friday evening, Jennifer Higdon's lyrical Soprano Sax Concerto displayed the classical capabilities of the instrument and the musical talents of soloist Timothy McAllister. The music concentrates on song-like lines and emotional sensitivity rather than virtuosic fireworks, though McAllister's gleaming tone and supple runs enhanced this fine work.
Higdon's Soprano Sax Concerto began and ended in a pastoral mood (a la Copland's Clarinet Concerto) and featured smooth, sweet and virtuosic playing by Timothy McAllister.
It was Higdon's concerto that offered the most sublime musical moments on the program...her saxophone concerto is an extremely lyrical piece whose ideas are clear and free of musical meandering...The work was played with warmth and agility by saxophonist Timothy McAllister...In the realm of contemporary music, finding a jewel amid the programmed mix is a rare music moment. And this concert delivered it with Higdon's concerto.
The [Cabrillo Festival Opening] concert's highlight concluded its first half: Jennifer Higdon's Soprano Sax Concerto...and it was superbly realized by soloist Timothy McAllister...This work is a significant testament to beauty.
One of America's bright young stars in teaching and in performing...exceptionally gifted.
...a contrasting sense of solemnity followed...yet moving...
Top Classical Saxophone Recordings - Timothy McAllister (Scena and Visions)
I have great admiration for your great talent...I have been very impressed by your masterful technique, by the simplicity of your playing, by your musical intelligence, by the perfect presentation...
Timothy McAllister gave intense, intelligent performances...mournful [and] exuberant...
Chambers' Come Down Heavy! ...a tour de force that tested the upper sonic limits in wild and woolly playing by Timothy McAllister on alto sax...
...McAllister's flexibility of sound, judicious use of vibrato, ease of altissimo, and tonal techniques make it possible to listen without distraction.
a mature, polished performer...whose dynamic and color contrasts enhance his ability to communicate - Bravo!
Mr. McAllister 'has a singing legato matched with excellent and fluent technique...a superior performer.'
The [Adams] concerto did not disappoint, with the orchestra joined on stage by American saxophonist Tim McAllister, whose jazz-style meanderings splendidly showcased the instrument's power and agility in the first movement. The second and final movement saw an explosion of energy...McAllister remained supremely in control of the work's demanding semiquaver passages; octave leaps were frequent and jarring
Your record [SCENA] is exceptional and the interpretation of Steady Study on the Boogie is maybe the best I have ever heard...Thank you for playing and teaching my music so brilliantly!
Tim McAllister is a stunning saxophonist&#8230;he has played and recorded two of my saxophone works, and I can't imagine them being played any better by anyone.
...McAllister performed solos crucial to the work&#8217;s flavor with brashness that never overpowered a beautifully rounded tone.
McAllister's evocative renditions and virtuoso artistry throughout the CD [SCENA] enables the music, as well as the saxophone, to transcend the potential pitfalls inherent in an ambitious project of this nature and allow the listener to be embraced by the musical challenges presented for both performer and listener...an excellent CD in both performance and composition of music.
Mead&#8217;s melodies are angular and supple, and McAllister renders them with a lyrical modern touch. Steady Study on the Boogie&#8230;is a fascinating piece, and McAllister plays it beautifully.
...the music is dramatic and colorful, requiring all sorts of novel saxophone sounds...high level of musicality in the playing...the musicianship of Duo Nuova is impeccable. McAllister's tone is creamy, and his fingering and tonguing are impressive.
No doubt this disc will be much studied and admired by saxophonists and certainly deserves hearing among a still wider audience...remarkably good and thought provoking
&#8230;breathtaking and spectacular&#8230;a revolution displayed in the hands of an artist&#8230;
In Jennifer Higdon&#8217;s 2007 Soprano Saxophone Concerto, Tim McAllister was equally amazing. He produced a clearly focused sound in all registers &#8212; and some were very extreme...Higdon&#8217;s formal organization also is quite free, but her single-movement concept kept musical ideas fairly compact. McAllister&#8217;s artistry helped.
Knockout performances by this high-energy ensemble...in this high-end audiophile recording supervised by many of the composers.
Timothy McAllister and Kathryn Goodson attain sparkling heights on In Transit, a recording of saxophone and piano pieces. The range of style is broad. Etezady's Streetlegal, commissioned by the duo, is a pleasingly violent, bravura flourish of an opening. Albright's Sonata is gripping, deftly binding sections of scintillating textures with more melodically based passages. The roles of alto saxophone and piano are fluid and intimately interactive, forming a strong partnership. The second movement, a lament for a deceased friend, is profoundly sad and beautifully played. III and IV allow further exciting opportunity for the players to flutter, flit, and dance madly. The first two works alone reveal the scope of the performers' skill and the scope of the repertoire. The Babbitt adeptly covers wide rhythmic and pitch territory in under two minutes. Wanamaker's brief, energetic sonata (commissioned by McAllister) explores different types of motion and energy (moto perpetuo, stasis, and 'rondo psycho'), themes that run through the entire program. Zupko's title work, commissioned by McAllister, is a series of impressionist movements, each presenting a different mood, but all containing shared melodic material.
McAllister and Goodson have teamed up to present a meticulously performed CD of new music with balance and precision of ensemble rapport, while their musical approach allows the music to sing and move forward effortlessly from the first note through the last note. In Transit does indeed move the listener, with both musical and emotional energy.
Originating from the roots of the classical repertoire, the saxophone has long been an instrument associated with the smooth sounds of jazz and popular music. The modern evolution of the saxophone was one fueled by such composers as George Gershwin, Alexander Glazunov, Debussy, and Ravel. They realized that the instrument's warmth and versatility were attractive elements in creating a new soloistic modern repertoire. Timothy McAllister's SCENA attempts to show the unique side of the saxophone's voice in today's musical landscape by presenting works written to push the limits. In taking a fearless approach that feasts upon all manners of music, McAllister's performance proves his ability to present a wide range of styles with an unwavering presence. Beginning with the title track, Andrew Mead's 'Scena,' McAllister sets the tone for the entire album by interpreting highly chromatic, twelve-tone oriented passages with ease. Christian Lauba's 'Steady Study on the Boogie' is filled with explosive techniques that show McAllister's technical prowess. Paul Steinberg's 'Sax Notes' delves deep into the highest registers of the instrument. Fusing multi-phonics with digital tape sequences, the music is blended to sound as if one. Other noted works are Elliott Carter's 'Inner Song,' Stockhausen's circular 'In Freundschaft,' and Benjamin Broening's playful 'Variations/Doubles,' all of which present McAllister in highly distinguished performances.
They [McAllister and Class] give a truly remarkable performance of Lilith...a superior recording.
one that will be studied and admired by saxophonists everywhere, yet deserves a still wider audience...remarkably good and thought provoking.
The LA Phil played superbly, with special kudos to saxophonist Timothy McAllister...
...[Bolcom's Concerto Grosso] radiates charm and affection for the vernacular roots of the saxophone. Scampering lines, bluesy swoons, crooning ballads, a ballroom waltz and a swing-band blitz leave the scent of jazz and impressionist harmony in the air...↵
McAllister was phenomenal, giving a dazzling performance that rocked the audience to its feet for a prolonged and well-deserved ovation
[City Noir's] second movement, &#8220;The Song Is for You,&#8221; is softer and, on the surface, sweeter than the first, and jazzy. I heard hints of Gershwin in the horns after a flamboyant saxophone solo played by Timothy McAllister.
The LA Philharmonic played beautifully throughout the performance (indeed, through the entire evening), with notable solo work from Timothy McAllister on saxophone...
John Adams said he wouldn't wish [that alto saxophone solo] on anyone, but Timothy McAllister dispatching it with wonderful grace on this world premiere evening.
"McAllister precisely conveyed the mood of every stylistic alley into which Bolcom peered. His saxophone delivered dialogue, as well as notes, as he brought his own experiences to Bolcom&#8217;s hodgepodge of a musical canvas...the arrangement of John Williams' Catch Me If You Can score gives plenty of opportunity to display his technical wizardry and dynamic control."
brilliant solos were in abundance, especially by Timothy McAllister...
Dudamel led a bracing, propulsive performance with instrumental lines clear even in Adams&#8217; most riotous contrapuntal moments. The L.A. Phil members covered themselves in glory with outstanding contributions...especially, Timothy McAllister&#8217;s evocative and bravura alto sax playing.
the main attraction of this enjoyable St. Louis Symphony album, conducted by David Robertson, is Adams' Saxophone Concerto, composed for the virtuosic Timothy McAllister, who plays it here. Stacked with swing-era allusions, moody 4am interludes and cartwheeling acrobatics, it is unpretentious fun from start to finish
...jaw-dropping technical display...Robert Spring is joined by the equally amazing saxophonist, Timothy McAllister, a well-known master of his instrument.
hypnotically swirling lines and propulsive rhythms...brilliantly performed by all concerned and recorded with life-like fidelity.
...a variety of great works offered here, by talented and innovative composers, and played by a superbly skilled team of soloists...an amazing achievement for McAllister.
Timothy McAllister is both an agile soloist, easily surmounting any technical hurdles, and an expressive, communicative musician able to plumb the depths or scale the heights of these contemporary composers&#8217; inspirations. His fellow musicians are equally accomplished; these renditions are finely honed collaborations between talented peers.
[Glint] is a varied anthology of contemporary pieces...tangy, oxygen rich and kaleidoscopic.↵
Handling the extensive saxophone solos was guest musician Timothy McAllister, who performed the work&#8217;s world premiere and who was brought in at Adams&#8217; request. Although seated in the middle of the orchestra, he stood for the solos and played the jazz-inspired riffs in a nervy, improvisatory style, a highlight of what was a fine performance.↵↵
City Noir is about process, not stasis...there was a prominent part for saxophone (played by the steady Timothy McAllister)...
(John) Adams goes for more than stylizations with [City Noir's] wily jazz spine. Keeping a sweaty, smoky after-hours jam percolating were Timothy McAllister&#8217;s volcanic sax...
Soloist Timothy McAllister proved brilliantly up to the enormous demands &#8212; vast spreads of pitches, disjunct lines that wanted to be as lyrical as possible and some dazzling scurries.
McAllister shone in the virtuosic concerto, navigating the perilous runs and figures with ease while keeping a high level of technical proficiency. His musicality was the high point of the performance, especially in the opening movement where Dahl eschewed a steady beat and rhythm, leaving the soloist to push forward the musical line. The final movement was a whirlwind of fingers, but each note and phrase was perfectly placed.
Adams's Saxophone Concerto was brought about by the stimulus of an extraordinary musician. Timothy McAllister's seemingly effortless handling of the "City Noir" solos...determined Adams to write a concerto for him in that style...The playing of McAllister is a wonder to hear, and the performances by Robertson and company set the standard for these works...
...the world premiere of his new saxophone concerto was, therefore, a very special moment indeed. John Adams' saxophone concerto is written for classical saxophonist Timothy McAllister. He gave an astonishing performance. Adams has thrown down the gauntlet with a solo line which demands speed, flexibility, musicality and, above all, stamina to keep going with barely a bar's rest. McAllister delivered, punching out the "nervous bebop" sound (Adams' description) with manic intensity, like a Charlie Parker or Stan Getz solo sustained across 30 minutes↵
John Adams' new concerto has an appealing blend of bright colours and astringency. Saxophonist Timothy McAllister was the outstanding soloist, channelling Stan Getz in the smooth lyrical passages. In the relentless, bebop-like figurations - stunningly executed - it recalled the frenetic solos of Charlie Parker, Cannonball Adderley and John Coltrane
Mr. Adams took inspiration from the virtuoso technique of Mr. McAllister...one of the foremost saxophonists of his generation
Certainly this is a virtuosic piece, designed to test the limits of the soloist for whom it was written, Tim McAllister, who showed his technical chops and his expressive musicianship with a piece that had his instrument now noodling thoughtfully, now dashing in crazy, frenetic runs up and down the scale...
the score deftly fuses classical and jazz elements to create a cohesive, arresting experience...it was written to match the talents of Tim McAllister, a sterling saxophonist who can handle those elements effortlessly...a kinetic, ecstatic ride that achieves giddy heights along the way...McAllister's splendid playing drew a hearty ovation from the audience and orchestra
[John] Adams wrote the concerto for saxophone virtuoso Tim McAllister, who played it Friday with consummate polish and verve
Adams's concerto followed, full of impatient energy, nods to various styles of music and some wildly intense saxophone lines...the piece was full of saxophone pyrotechnics that McAllister played with command and ease. He moved gracefully from a bold, brassy sound to mellow, almost vocal strains, playing with the precision and polish of a classical player and a musical freedom that made much of the piece sound improvised on the spot
The MSO paired the Eroica with a relatively new piece by John Adams, featuring saxophone virtuoso Timothy McAllister, for whom it was composed. It's a daunting, virtuosic piece of work, a half-hour long, two-movement piece that allows the soloist almost no rest for its duration...you could hear traces of great players throughout the piece: the lyricism of Stan Getz, the virtuosity of Charlie Parker, and the angles and odd rhythms of Thelonius Monk sidemen like Charlie Rouse and Johnny Griffin. Played in a "classical" style, however, the motifs blend together in a uniform tone, devoid of the soloist's signature sound. McAllister's signature sound, however, is gorgeous--smooth and liquid--very similar to a clarinet in the middle register, and only a touch meatier at the bottom and top. The musical ideas, thus, blended into a stream of musical ideas, cascading arpeggios, off-centered riffs and sweet jazzy arias.
Timothy McAllister, the saxophonist virtuoso for whom this concerto was written, performed with amazing fluency, combining crisp rhythmic energy with infectious, stylish phrasing. Jazz influences, appropriate to the instrument, are often just below the surface. Moody sections, reminiscent of a film noir score, are particularly effective. This is certainly one of the most original and successful concertos written for any instrument in recent decades.
McAllister is at the center of what's probably the most mainstream classical saxophone disc of the decade - John Adams' City Noir and Saxophone Concerto on Nonesuch
a fearless musician and risk taker...a one-of-a-kind artist the way Yo-Yo Ma is
a highly engaging venture into the spirit of the riff, so to speak, without ever explicitly acknowledging the roots of that spirit in Bird&#8217;s solos...This recording is particularly satisfying, not only for the facility with which McAllister jumps through all of the hoops that Adams has created but also for the informed rhetorical context that Robertson establishes as conductor.
expertly written for the brilliant Timothy McAllister, and the music has the infectious, irresistible energy [Adams] generates so convincingly...
Dense, brash and exuberant, these two stellar works by John Adams are love letters to the confidence of the 1950s and a time when some of the greatest feats of virtuosity were often performed in smoky jazz clubs. David Robertson leads an incisive performance; the saxophonist Timothy McAllister sizzles